Hello and welcome back to the Advanced
Course in Tableau. And in today's quick
tutorial we're going to learn an
advanced technique which relates to
blending data and let me show you why we
will need this technique in this
specific visualization. So when I play this
animation that we've created here
what you'll notice is I'm just going to
play it on medium speed. Actually let's
play on fast speed which you'll notice is
watch this big red bubble. So let's go
again let's go to that again, if you look
at the big red bubble you can see that
it's so big that it's covering up a lot
of smaller bubbles underneath it. So blue,
yellow, orange bubbles are hidden under
it and we want like a big big bubble
like that should be underneath all these
small bubbles because you'll still be
able to see it but at the same time
you'll better understand what's going
with the little smaller ones and that is
the case for instance with this bubble
which is representing India. It is under
the other bubbles and therefore it looks
good but this red bubble is above
everything and so are all other red
bubbles they're at the top and that is
because they are ordered in that way in
our color legend over here. So let's see how
we can correct that. What would we normally do
with this color legend. I'm just going to
move this legend over here so we can see
the color legend. What we normally do?
Normally would just drag around our
marks or colors in the color legend and
would put them above or below each other
like we want. But in this case we can't
do that right? We were trying to I'm
trying to click-and-drag but nothing is
happening, it's not moving and moreover
if i click the drop-down here I don't
have an option to sort or if i click
here I don't have an option to sort my
data and why is that? Well the reason
for that is because the color legend or
this region column is coming from a
secondary data source and you can tell
by this indicator here which is like a
database with a yellow mark instead of
blue mark and because it's coming from a
secondary data source you cannot sort by
it just like that in your visualization.
You have to apply an advanced technique
which we'll learn right now.
So in order to sort your data by a
column which is coming from a secondary
data source, you have to go to the data
source in your data pane, there it is,
our metadata countries and here you need
to find that column, you need to right click
that column and you need to go to
default properties and here you need to
select sort and here you can manually
specify a sort which you want to prevail
in visualizations involving this column.
So we want the red bubbles to be at the
bottom, so let's take east asian pacific
and move them all the way down to the
bottom and click apply and there you go
you can see that the red bubble has
moved to bottom and it's much better
this way, you can still see it but at the
same time you can see all the other
bubbles that are hidden underneath it.
Let's go ahead and play our visualization one
more time. So there you go you can see
that it's it's flying the same way it
was but now it's at the bottom and all
the red bubbles are now underneath and
that's a tip relating to best practices
in Tableau. You want to take care of your
users not sufficient to just deliver a
dashboard where all the informations
present you have to make that
information accessible so the user can
put the mouse over every single bubble
and find out what country it is and find
out additional information relating to
that country. So there we go that's how
you can sort by field that come from
secondary data sources in Tableau. And I
look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then, happy analyzing.